hello my name is Patrick Collins and I'm
the digital hug technology manager and
developer relations we're going to be
covering this recording api's today so
we have the whole burning issue teen
here to run through everything they'll
be here for Q&A after the session and
we'll get started with a drouth Baylor
thank you hello and welcome so today
we're going to be talking about disk
recording my name is true sailor my
title is recording artists I worked in
the burning issues group at Apple
computer and we handle everything that
has to do with CD and DVD burning so one
year ago the disk recording api's were
introduced to the Jaguar and so this is
our second session and we're going to
talk about what went on in the past and
we're going to talk about what's new for
Panther sir topics in session we're
going to go over the introduction we're
going to talk about the new features in
Panther for those of you that are
already familiar with disk recording and
then we're going to go ahead and do an
overview of the API and covering both
old and new stuff and we're going to
talk about a new feature which we call
device profile and that will be at the
end of the session so let's talk about
this recording what is disk recording
well no one can be told what disk
recording is you have to experience it
for yourself no no I'm just kidding
really actually you can be told with
this cording is and I'm going to do it
here for you today before we talk about
what disk recording is though let's talk
about why it's a basic problem that you
have to deal with if you're an
application that wants to provide
digital media on CDs and DVDs is that
really burning discs is actually pretty
hard you know it takes several man years
of work to implement all the various
levels of things
have to do is talk to many different
layers of the operating system you have
to do the user interface you have to go
all the way down to talking to hardware
you have to deal with all the layers of
the operating system in between
including threading io kits disk
arbitration things like that you have to
talk directly to the to the dr different
drives neo might have slightly different
behaviors and you don't necessarily want
to deal with that from your application
you also have to stream your data from
the beginning of the disk to the end the
CD is generally not a random writable
thing you can't just copy files to it
you have to start at block 20 of the
disk stream all the way to the end you
also can't just use normal file systems
there are specialized file systems which
are designed for cds which are
cross-platform there's thousands of
pages of specifications you know there's
this whole sea of acronyms and these are
just these are just the publishers of
the specifications not even the
specifications themselves you've got all
these color books you've got the red
book the yellow book orange book the
green book the blue book the other blue
book there's a lot of stuff to read and
you have to pay attention to every
little sentence and it's kind of just a
big pain so and lastly and very much not
least since this is the mac your
application needs to play nicely with
all the other applications you don't
want to completely take over the drive
you want the user to be able to
seamlessly move between your application
itunes finder whatever else so you need
to play nice with the other applications
so solving that problem we really need
something that's ice it's easy that's
fast and that's powerful so for easy it
really needs to be accessible to
application developers we need something
object oriented it's going to give you a
nice high level easy to interpret view
of the task at hand you need to hide the
hardware difference you need to have an
abstraction layer that's
moves out the differences between all
the devices and just treats a CD burner
as a CD burner because of the things
with file systems and creating the
different types of data you know there
are some pretty common tasks in there
that would be duplicated you don't need
every application to become a master of
you know three different file system
formats you just need to it would be
nice if there's a helper to help you do
that sort of thing having a common user
interface between applications is good
it should be kind of fast some
applications function by writing out all
the data to disk first you know creating
a CD image on the hard drives and then
sending it to the dips and they get to
the cds and that works but you you wind
up touching the data three times once
while you're producing it once getting
it on and off the disc and once sending
it to the drive and that's actually a
lot slower than just going straight from
content production to the disc and it
really should be powerful you need to be
able to not just burn a folder you want
to burn exactly the format of data you
want you want to be able to really burn
anything you know for people that really
know what they're doing and want to get
down to the guts of it they really
should be able to burn anything without
having to go out of the way it shouldn't
be purely high level it should be
accessed down to the low levels so that
brings us to diss recording itself so
what is disk recording well to begin
with it's a device abstraction layer
there's lots of devices there's lots of
connection interfaces you have USB
firewire all these drives you know bae
it might behave a little differently
underneath the hood but you don't really
need to worry about that there's lots of
there's lots of things like that so dis
recording it's an abstraction layer that
makes it very easy to talk to devices
this recording is a data streaming
engine fundamentally CD burning most CD
burning is streaming you start at the
beginning and you write all the way to
the end and that involves real-time data
production
it's a content generator again
generating the content is not trivially
easy if they generate multiple file
systems at the same time in or leave
them on the disk and if you're burning
an audio CD for example then you need to
take your mp3 file decompress it you
know and send it to the drive and it's a
system framework most importantly Apple
has already done all of this work we've
packages it all up for your application
to use the exact same stuff that iTunes
the finder all of apple's applications
use and it's available for your use so
this means for applications that
leverage the district reporting services
that burning disks is really natural it
becomes basically a type of printing for
your digital media you produce the
content whether it's music whether it's
movies scientific data whatever it might
be and we get it onto the disk for you
so your application is integrated into
the digital hub so for those of you who
are a little bit familiar with district
Corning already we're going to touch
upon the new features in Panther so the
first thing that's new in cancer is that
district ording is now an umbrella
framework so we've taken some of the
components of dis recording and broken
them up into sub frameworks and you
might be asking more what does this mean
to me really probably not much the only
thing that it might I might have to do
with you is if you include individual
disk recording headers such as be our
tracks dot H directly in your
application rather than including the
framework header so if you include the
framework header you're good if you
include other headers you might have to
update your includes we've got toll-free
bridging we have objects in both seeing
objective-c and Jaguar there were
separate entities and Panther there now
exactly the same a dr track ref is the
same as the dr track
we've got audio file burning so if
you're burning an audio CD from mp3's
you don't have to write your own mp3
decompressor or figure out how to use
quicktime to do it we've got that code
for you we've added some pearl audio
features media catalog number UPC code
the international standard recording
code for tracks support for the serial
copy management system subtract index
points and you can also specify your
burn strategy should track it once or
session at once and so on we've added
carbon accessories for the user
interface panels it's got something that
we're going to talk about at the end of
the session called device profile which
is the new way that we're going to be
doing device support basically from
Panther onward and it's not just it's
not just you know and this extra thing
that we're giving you it's the way
apples going to be doing it too so we're
very interested in making it work and
making it work right so for those of you
that are interested in device profiles
will be wanting your feedback at the end
of the session and we've added a command
line utility give access to some of dis
recordings features from the command
line so let's dig down a little bit into
the API and talk about the general
concepts so dis recording is an
object-oriented API it's got these
high-level objects they're available
from both see and objective-c and again
new in Panther their toll free bridged
so all the see objects are CF types all
the objective-c objects are obviously NS
objects the see objects you know since
they're CF they follow retain release
conventions they have CF collection
support there's consistent naming
conventions between them between the
functions in general every object has a
property's dictionary and the properties
dictionary controls its behavior so
rather than having
a whole bunch of accessories this is
just one dictionary you set properties
in it and when it goes to do something
it checks the property that's how you
control it of course all the API is our
thread safe so you don't have to worry
about you know calling stuff reentrant
lior adding all kinds of extra locks to
worry about things everything's thread
safe so there are really three main
parts to the district court in
architecture down at the bottom we have
to burn engine and the burn engine is
responsible for handling devices or
burning and erasing those are its
primary features building on top of that
we have the content creation AP is and
these handle file system creation and in
Panther now they handle auto audio track
creation from an audio file then
parallel to that also building on top of
the burn engine we have the user
interface so we have panels that you can
use for burn setup for progress during a
burn and these are really the
fundamental tasks this is everything you
need to do hopefully except for actually
producing your content and we've even
got stuff to help you with producing
your content so let's zoom in on the
burn engine and talk about the objects
inside so the burn engine handled for
things really I said three before but
it's really for angles burning handles
are racing they handles devices it'll
tell you about devices and you can do
certain things to the devices and as
part of its device handling it handles
media arbitration so the burn engine is
what's responsible for helping your
application play nice with itunes in the
finder and everything else this is all
done with really just a small set of
objects there's four core objects two of
them represent actions to burn in a race
object and two of them one of them
represents your data and one of them
represents the device that you're
burning to you can also sign up for
notification and so
we have our own notification center
which we'll cover in just a moment where
you can sign up for notifications on
your object so the dr burn object
represents the act of burning and so you
create it and then you ask it to write a
layout and what's the layout well layout
can be just 1-track if you're perhaps
burning a data disk it can be multiple
tracks say if you're burning a
multitrack audio CD can even be an array
of array of tracks in which case you get
multiple sessions now burn is an
asynchronous operation so you you kick
it off and it happens on its own thread
and then you get notifications for
progress and completion so you don't
have to worry about giving it time from
your user interface you can do whatever
you need to do and it just we take care
of it and it just works the our track
object it's how you specify the data the
dr track object represents your track it
could be a CD audio track could be a
data track it's flexible we basically
expose a lot of MMC down in the dr track
so that you can really do anything in
MMC you provide your data through a call
back and see if the function pointer and
Objective C it's a object in the
selector and we'll call you back at real
time during the burn right when we need
the data and obviously you might be
doing some sort of computation to
produce the data perhaps decompression
decrypting whatever so we know that you
know the CPU is not infinite so we'll
let you will run a production cycle for
you so you can find out just how fast
you can produce the data so you don't
need to do that test yourself we've got
already got the helpers in there to help
you find the maximum data rate and that
helps us set burn speed correctly so
that it doesn't under run so we've got
the burn object we've got the track
which specifies the data now we've got
the device object this represents
basically where you're burning too
so there's one dr device object for
every device with burning device that's
attached to the system and the dr device
objects can report the capabilities of
the device which are basically static
and unchanging things like this device
can write cd-rs this device can write
dvd-rs it also can tell you about the
media inside the device so that you know
you can find out whether the disk inside
is blank whether it's already been
burned what type it is whether it's CDR
dvd-r that sort of thing it's also got a
few commands that you can do such as
opening and closing the tray on mounting
and ejecting volume and dr device will
send its own notification and these are
a little different so basically crd our
device is not something you create it's
something that represents devices on the
system well we live in a dynamic world
and the user can go ahead and plug
devices in and pop them out you know at
any time with firewire technologies like
that so we'll send you a notification
when a device shows up we'll send you a
notification when a device goes away so
you don't have to sit there and keep
pulling the list will tell you when it
changes we also will tell you when media
comes and goes because that's something
else that you might need to pull for a
while you don't need to pull we all we
do it all with notifications and it'll
tell you when devices comments come and
go when there's when devices are
available or not for example if itunes
is running and it's doing a burn but you
can't really do anything to the device
while iTunes is doing a burn so the
device goes busy for the duration of
that burn then it comes back afterwards
and we'll send you a notification when
it goes busy we'll send you a
notification when it's available again
and so to handle all these notifications
that I've been talking about we've got
the dr Notification Center and if you've
used the NS and CF notification centers
these are pretty much the same thing
have basically the same interface
there's a couple detail
of the implementation that that differ
for one thing the our notification
center was designed for inter thread
notifications so that we're we're doing
the burn up on a high priority real-time
thread and we're sending notifications
back to you on your main thread so
obviously this thread can't the burn
thread can't stop and wait for your main
thread so the notification center sits
in the middle and kind of it alittle
straddle things and coalesce multiple
notifications into a single one if you
if you're updating your UI or whatever
else and even though we'll will coalesce
some of the notifications we guarantee
delivery for all the important ones you
know if the burn if we send
notifications for one percent two
percent three percent complete you can
miss one and two as long as you get
three percent but if for example to burn
finishes well that's you know that's an
important notification we guarantee
delivery of that one so you can use
these notifications to key off the state
to understand the state of all the
objects so you'll get all the important
transitions and this is really strongly
recommended sometimes it's easier to
write the code that pulls the problem
with the polling code is that sometimes
you wind up in a state where you know
things happen just a little too quickly
and you don't pick up what happens on
the polling you sign up for
notifications will make sure that you
get all the notifications you need so
we've got our core objects here that we
need for a burn let's look at
halliburton works so up at the top we've
got your application you're going to
create a burn object to represent the
act of your burn and you're going to
associate it with a device you look at
the devices on the system pick one and
then you set properties on the burn for
example whether or not you want to
verify the speed at which you want to
burn and so on and then you tell the
burn to write a layout the layout is
down at the bottom in this case it's an
array of 3d our tracks so the burn
starts to write and as it goes it sends
notifications over to the Notification
Center Notification Center then relays
to your application on main thread or
whatever thread you chose and that's
basically how the burn works when the
burn completes one last notification
goes up to your application and then
it's done so erasing is really a lot
like burning there's not a lot of
there's not a lot of surprises here
represents an erase rather than a burn
again it's an asynchronous operation you
start it with one call kick it off goes
up happens in the background will send
you notifications for progress and when
it's done so if we look at the anatomy
of an erase it's pretty much the same
thing only without the data if your
application your race that you step
properties on associated with the device
notifications go through and get up to
your application so we're going to give
a little demonstration of how the device
notifications work in the burn engine
just to give you an example and show you
the kinds of things that you can do so
let's switch over to demo one okay so
what we've got here is we've got a very
basic application there's a nib file
which will see when it will see when it
runs but the nib file basically there's
a window with a text field there's
nothing complicated in it we've got a
pretty empty application controller here
so actually I need my script and my
scripts gone
see if I can get one of my helpers to
bring my script up I do know the first
several thing so the first thing that
we're going to need is we're going to
need to include disk recording dot H so
we're using the departing services so
we're going to include disk recording
then once the application is done
launching we're going to create we're
going to basically create an array which
contains a copy of the app of the
current devices that are attached and
the reason why we're going to do this is
because when we call when he asked this
recording for the list of devices we're
going to get a list of exactly what's
connected at that instant but the thing
is we can't you can't really rely on
that staying the same from one to the
net from one moment to the next because
devices come and go so if you're going
to do something in your UI you need a
separate copy that you can say okay I
know the third device represents this
device because if the second device goes
away in between when you ask for the two
sets of devices can be a problem so
we're going to keep our own local copy
of the device list so down here we're
going to sign up for a notification
we're going to sign up for device
disappeared notifications the reason we
sign up for disappeared notifications so
that we can keep track of we're going to
sign up for disappeared before we sign
up for up here notifications this is
basically for synchronization because
this again if a device shows up or if a
device disappears once we've built the
list then we'll get a notification right
away but we don't want to get into any
race conditions where we don't find out
about a device going away then we're
going to add so then we're going to add
the device appeared notification so
we've now signed up with these two
selectors and we've got
these methods that are going to be
invoked in our app controller well so
we're going to need those methods so
here's the device appeared and all we're
going to do is a standard notification
response selector so we get it the
object for the notification is the
device and we're going to add it to our
list so we're going to go and update the
user interface so here we go here's the
device disappeared notification and
again we're just going to get the object
for removing from our list and update
our UI so this application is basically
just going to tell us a little bit about
every device connected to the system and
it's going to respond dynamically as
things come and go so we've been calling
update UI so we need to give that an
implementation so here's a little bit of
stuff to just enumerate the list of our
list of devices you know loop through
and enumerate the list so we're going to
get ice info the device info is static
unchanging information about the device
describing its capabilities and things
like that and part of the info is the
devices name and we've got a nice thing
that gives you a nicely formatted string
describing the device we're going to the
connection is also here because the
devices for example USB or firewire or
whatever else so we're going to get that
then we're going to look at the steps
and the status is things that can change
that so it's the current it's a snapshot
of the current status of the device and
from that we're going to pull out
whether the device is not we're going to
pull out the media state when the media
state can be empty the in transition
which means the drive is spinning up or
spinning down
or can have media and then we're going
to get the media types so if there is
media and that's where we get the media
type so we're going to get the media
info dictionary which is a sub
dictionary underneath the status we're
going to pull out the media type from
the info mediainfo a dictionary if
there's no media then we'll have a
special string to indicate that and
otherwise the media is in transition and
spinning up or spinning down so what
we're going to do then is we're going to
log all of this information that we've
gathered basically directly from the
device i'm going to log it into the text
field i'm going to add it to the text
field and set it on the text field so
we've just gone through loop through all
devices built up this string describing
the state of the device and we're done
so I think that's it for this one so
let's see if it builds
so we've got a couple devices connected
to the machine over here and these
devices we've got two firewire devices
plus the internal drive on the machine
so when it's ready to go here we go so
this is our very simple text field and
so we've signed up from the
notifications so it's telling us all
about each of the things we've got the
internal atop e pioneer drive we've got
an external drive connected over
firewire got another external drive
connected over firewire none of them are
busy noun for them have any media so I'm
going to change that open one stick
media in close it
are we getting our notification perhaps
we're not
okay well there might be something wonky
with our notifications but we are
getting the initial stuff let's try that
one more time and just see what happens
let's eject this guy if you'll love it
no hmm oh did I did not add that you're
right that's that's why we're not
updating we aren't done with the demo
yet so what we need to do is go back
over here so we've signed up for device
appeared and disappeared notifications
but we at what we haven't signed up for
is media state changes so let's go up
here too so we can detect when devices
are there but we're not really noticing
what's happening to them so let's go up
to device appeared when we give device
we're going to sign up from
notifications on the media so here we go
we're adding another notification again
we'll just get the notification center
add an observer sign up for device
status change notifications a device
disappears we're going to go down and
remove our remove the notification that
we've signed up for so we've just signed
up for status changed and you know and
removed ourselves so let's go down here
glass but not least we need to implement
the device state change so when the
device state changes all we're going to
do is kick over and update the UI so now
now that we've got all the code in there
let's go ahead and compile it and run it
and see if we actually pick up all of
the notification
so here we go we've got our three drive
is that the firewire drive or to fire or
drives one of them has a CD in it one of
them doesn't so let's put something in
the bottom drive so it's in transition
the drive is spinning up detecting
whether there's media trying to see what
it is and there we go it's notice that
there's CDR media these drugs might not
have functioning eject button so I guess
we'll just leave the media in there for
now oh its spell checking that's great
so okay so we've signed up for
notifications and we can watch what's
going on on the device now if we were to
do a burning iTunes I can would cause it
to flip the device busy and so on so you
can find out anything you need to about
the drive from the notifications and
that's it for demo one so let's get back
over here to the slides okay
great ok so we've talked about the burn
engine now we're going to zoom in some
of the higher level pieces we're going
to talk about content creation content
creation is where all the helpers for
creating content are so the problem with
burning is that you burn basically a
data stream and formatting that data
stream can be kind of difficult so if
you're not up to formatting that data
stream we've got helpers to help you do
that and make it bring it into a more
natural set of AP is so the content
creation now with panther has two main
parts there's one part that helps you
create file systems for data disks
including ISO 9660 joliet hfs+ and
hybrids of any of those and there's also
an audio helper to help you take audio
files mp3 AAC files whatever anything
QuickTime can import and burn them to an
audio CD these are really they're not
just you know let's burn one folder
they're really pretty powerful pretty
flexible and they're easy to use they're
very natural concepts as we'll see in
just a moment so first we're going to
talk about the file systems so the
content framework or the content
creation API is basically contain things
that that cover there's some special
kinds of dr tracks there dr tracks where
we provide the callback for you and we
give the data to the burn engine so dr
file system track represents a data
track for a CD or dvd and you specify a
file system hierarchy that you want on
the disk and we'll go ahead and put it
on to the disk for you
and again this file system hierarchy is
not just let's burn a single folder
we've got it hooked up so that you can
actually do anything you want and the
objects are really very natural so we
have file and folder objects and so 4dr
file objects for example there's
different ways to create them you can
have them come from an existing file on
the hard disk somewhere you can have
them come from a data blob in memory or
you can specify your own data through a
callback routine so if you're getting
real-time sampling data you can send it
straight to the straight for the drive
you have it actually show up as a file
rather than just raw data on the disk so
the way it works is you build your
hierarchy you build a hierarchy of file
and folder objects and there's different
kinds of objects so your files and
folders can they be either real or
virtual well let's talk about that
distinction for just a moment real files
and folders are pretty much copy and
straight from an existing file system so
if you have you know folder similar or
file somewhere this you just want to
bring onto the disk you can go ahead and
do that you can create a real file that
points to that and put it into the
hierarchy wherever you want like it
doesn't have to be exactly where it was
before you you're specifying a brand new
hierarchy so we'll pull at stuff from
any portion of the disk bring it all
together for you objects can also be
virtual so they can that means that are
entirely created through the API that
means they don't exist on disk at all
you might be specifying data runtime you
might be saying I just want this to be
an empty file you can do whatever you
want and that's all specified through
the API so what we've got we've really
got four classes of object we've got
real files virtual files real folders
and virtual folders now the way the way
this works is that three of these are
basically you have a hierarchy which is
a tree and the leaf nodes three of these
are leaf nodes which means that they
can't have children added to them so
real files in real files and virtual
files obviously our files and can't have
anything added to them well real folders
represent will bring in what's
underneath the folder but you can't
actually add children to them
dynamically so the virtual folders are
how you really define your synthetic
hierarchy so this cording will take all
of this and will generate file systems
for you and so these file since we
generate have different naming
conventions there's ISO 9660 which has
one convention joliet which has another
hfs+ which has yet another and so the
names you know the names can be whatever
you want but depending on what names
they happen to be they might not conform
to what the file system wants the disk
recording will automatically transform
the file names to make them legal to
make them fit so that their they conform
to the standards however we don't just
be fun we do this automatically but we
don't just do it behind your back you
know if you need to know that the name
of file for example to build a disk
relative tasks or something you can
actually ask this recording and get the
name for each file and you can even
change it if you need to if you don't
like what this recording is done to it
you can go ahead and change it through
your UI or programmatically so every
object also has the properties
dictionary and the properties dictionary
for file system objects describes the
metadata on the object things like
permissions type and creator you know
owner group things like that and again
since every object has a properties
dictionary you can go into the
properties dictionary and override the
properties on real files real folders
virtual files virtual folders you can
set all of these and obviously real
files and real folders will at first
inherits the properties you know the
owner group permissions type creator
will inherit the properties from the
real file but then if you need to you
can go in and
override those change them whatever you
need to do finally each object in the
content API s has a mask the mask
determines the presence of each object
in each file system this is actually
it's a very simple concept but at least
something pretty cool you can actually
take objects and turn them off in
specific file systems perhaps you're
writing a cross-platform game and you
know you have a Windows executable and
the mac OS executable well you make the
mac OS one only show up in hfs+
filesystem make the windows one only
show up in joliet and that's really easy
to do and when you set a mask on the
root folder that determines it basically
carries downward because obviously if a
folder doesn't include hfs+ none of its
children can really include hrs + either
so it carries downward and the way it
works is the root is what determines
what file systems will be on the disk so
if you want a hybrid hybrid disk you set
a mask on the root folder that has a
hybrid mask and even though we'll put
all of these objects in different file
systems really a file data is all shared
between them you don't have three copies
of the file on disk you actually have
just one copy and you have essentially
three different views of the file data
so now we've sort of gone over all that
let's look at a real data track so up at
the top we've got the dr filesystem
track object and it basically just has
it does have properties which aren't
labeled there but underneath it there
are you know our hierarchy our tree of
objects so we've got a dr folder which
is our root folder it's got a couple
files we've got one real file from
somewhere on disk and we've got a
virtual file that we're going to be
specifying the data for at runtime we've
got a real folder which automatically
brings in everything underneath that
folder
and then we've got a virtual folder so
we've got a couple couple real files
another real folder so this recording
can take this hierarchy these files
these like these real files that are up
here the real folders they don't have to
be in this tree already it can be
anywhere on disk in fact with virtual
files they don't have to be on disk at
all you can really build a synthetic
file system from pretty much anything
and its really pretty powerful so that's
the file system stuff now new and
Panther we have the our audio track dr
audio track it's a set of helper api's
for creating a red book audio track just
a standard audio CD track which you can
play in your CD player and it will
import any file to quicktime can read so
you don't have to write the d
compressors you don't have to write
stuff to translate it into the CDD a
format will do it for you so movies aifs
waves mp3's AAC files as quick time
moves forward and is able to import more
stuff this will be able to import more
stuff and again this is a new and
Panther so an audio burn an audio track
by itself not that exciting so we
decided to put a whole audio burn up
here so again we have to burn object up
at the top with the property and the our
audio track again is just a special type
of gear track where we provide the
callback and we've got a set of files up
here so we've got an mp3 file an aiff
and an AAC file and when you burn this
this recording will just write out a
three-track audio CD containing the
music from those files so let's talk
about the user interface it's the third
component the user interface provides a
common interface for burning and erasing
there are set up panels for setting up a
burn and erase and we handle device
selection we handle all the logic of
keeping track of state changes if the
user plugs in a device while the panel's
up the panel will notice
the user unplugged device all that codes
been written so you don't have to do it
and we also provide a standard set of
options for you know pretty much
anything user would want to do for
burning and erasing and we also provide
standardized progress panels you may
have seemed seen them in dis copy and
other applications well just pretty much
a progress bar keeps track of things be
presented as a sheet on your window or
as a standalone panel we provide a set
of icons if you have to need them for
your interface and the user interface is
accessible from both coca-cola and
carbon and last year we promised that we
were going to get it's in carbon we're
going to make it available in carbon and
it didn't quite make it for the release
so here it is for real so we're going to
take the content and then DUI I'm going
to bring them together and build a
pretty full full-featured burning
application in just a few lines of code
so let's go ahead and switch back to
demo one so unfortunately this is not
quite as easy as say writing a web
browser because we're going to have to
actually write some code we can't do it
entirely in interface builder yet so
what we've got let's go over to demo
tube so what we've got for this demo is
we've basically got a very very simple
app controller we've added a few
skeleton methods to pick files you know
if you're familiar with NS open panel
which you may be then you know this will
generally not be a big surprise to you
and other than that got this empty user
interface with a couple big buttons on
it
nice big buttons here they are and they
don't do much yet so here we are we've
got so each of these buttons there's one
hooked up to each each of these methods
so let's let's go through so go up to
the top we're going to include our disk
recording headers disk recording you is
a separate framework so we're going to
import that separately I'm going to go
down past the open panels down to here
and we're going to go ahead and create
an audio disk well how do we create an
audio disk well the first thing is we're
going to ask the user for some file and
once we've got that we're going to loop
through the files and enumerate through
them we're going to create a dr track
for each file and so we're not actually
doing error checking here because this
is a demo but if we were doing error
checking dr the dr track creation method
would return nil if clicked on can't
read the file so we're going to look at
all those then we are going to invoke
our methods which we're going to create
in just a moment for creating a disc so
we're going to burn the layout we've
created all the tracks in an array this
is the where we're creating the tracks
we're going to adult we've added all
those to an array and we're going to
burn that as a layout so then we're
going to go up to here so we've called
up this method on ourselves burn layout
with description well we need to create
that method
so what do we do inside that methods
well first thing we're going to do is
create a set up panel set up channel is
you know where the user sets up the burn
we've created the setup panel and we're
just going to run it there are options
you can set on it but we don't really
need 70 options we're happy with the
default so we're just going to run it
and if you use your hits okay well then
we're going to go ahead and do the burns
and we do the burn by brink by creating
a progress panel we're going to put our
description into the panel and then
we're going to go ahead and tell the
panel to start up so it begins the
progress channel we get the burn object
straight from the setup panel the setup
panel pre-configured burn object
according to whatever the user has
selected so the user says they don't
want to verify that's what that property
is already set in the burn object and we
pass in the layout that came into this
method
okay and that's actually all we need for
burning the layout we're going to run
the setup panel we're going to set the
description then just start the progress
panel so not much code there so we could
compile and run and create an audio disk
right now but let's go ahead and do the
data disc creation so how do we create a
data disk well again we're going to call
our methods that brings up an open panel
select some data files we're going to go
through the file we're going to create a
virtual folder for now this is a demo
we're just going to give it a standard
name of our own and take every file the
user selects loop through them and look
at it figure out whether it's a file or
directory and if it's a directory and we
create a dr folder this creates a real
dr folder otherwise i'm going to create
a dr file we're going to take whatever
the user selects throw it into one
virtual folder at the root of the volume
there we go we're going to add it the
root folder of the disk and so we've
we're setting an explicit filesystem ask
here and this controls again which file
systems are generated so for example if
we wanted a truss the default is
actually to create a cross-platform disk
which would be hfs+ iso 9660 and joliet
if we wanted to we could say okay I
don't want I don't want hm s+ we're just
going to do an ISO joliet disk you can
really pretty much do any combination
and we'll just to generate the file
systems that you asked for once we've
done that we're going to again call our
method I'm going to create the track
right here gare track to track for root
folder boom we've got a file system and
we're going to invoke our method to burn
that to bring up the
bring up the setup panel and do the
progress and that's all so let's go
ahead and build this so what we've done
this with just this little bit of code
we've created an application that can
burn an audio CD can burn that a data CD
and really burn you know pretty much
anything you need with just like this
little tiny bit of code to select files
and bring up the panel so let's run it
so here we go here's our interface so
we've got our two buttons well let's go
ahead and create an audio disc happen to
have some music right here let's select
the file brings up the burn setup panel
so the burn setup panel again you have
options to set the speed you have
whether to verify or not whether you got
to eject your mount after the burn we're
just going to leave those pretty much
straight forward there's already media
loaded in the drive so let's just go
ahead and burn so there we go and we're
burning an audio CD that was easy well
let's go ahead and burn a data CD while
we're at it so go over here let's go to
Panther developer examples will burn a
couple folder sorts of stuff that will
burn the disk recording examples too so
we've selected three items and what
we're what this is going to do is it's
going to bring those all together in a
virtual folder so again here's our setup
panel we're ready to burn there we go
so the audio disc is going over here the
data disc is building the file systems
as we go and you know watching burning
happen is a little bit boring but you
have to watch the progress bars cross
crawl across the screen and there we go
we've created an application that can
burn audio discs and data discs and it
just works which is really pretty cool
ok so let's let's switch back to the
slides here you go and it really is just
that simple that much code burning audio
CDs you're burning data cds it's really
cool ok so now we're going to talk about
device profiles those of you that you
know maybe may be involved with creating
and bundling hardware you're going to be
interested in this so this is something
that so this is the new way that device
support is going to work an apple is
adopting this for ourselves and we're
giving this to you for you to hook into
so let's talk about what twice profiles
are so device profiles are a way for
manufacturers bundlers of drives to add
support for their own drive without or
with reduced interaction from Apple so
if you've if you've been in this
situation you kind of know what it has
to happen you have to send drives in and
you have to wait and then we have to do
the work and you have to wait and you
know it's no fun for you it's no fun for
us and we kind of want to make it a lot
easier and a lot smoother so what we're
going to do is a device profile is a
text file and it's an XML plist file
that lives on the hard drive it contains
two sets of things if you're familiar
with kernel extensions it's very similar
to the way them the way to the way that
works and that there's a dictionary
describing the matching
and that's all the personality for the
profile and then after we've got
matching criteria we've got the actual
data for the profile in each file we've
got information on how the device
interprets the NMC specifications if
they're you know happened to be any bugs
god forbid or quirks in the firmware is
there occasionally our it's one point o
wasn't quite perfect but the drive got
released any way you can you can mark
what's broken and still get it to work
if there are any quirks such as you know
we'll try to ask the dr what it supports
but if the drive doesn't support it
correctly or dis recording can't quite
figure out what's going on then you can
help us along by telling us in the
profile what the tries does and doesn't
do so device profile editor is an
application that's going to be released
that creates these profile files there
you and even though they're p lists we
want we want you to use the device
profile editor because you know the
format is a pretty complicated view list
and we don't want to have any mistakes
you don't have to dig in there with
property list editor where you're going
to get this nice UI and the device
profile editor will be responsible for
validating profiles it'll when you tell
when you tell us like what the garage
supports we're going to run a battery of
tests against the drive make sure that
disk recording really can talk to the
device so it kind of eliminates a lot of
the testing makes it automatic gets rid
of some of the support hassles and this
is going to be a requirement for you
know official support so without further
ado let's do a demo of the device
profile editor switch back over to demo
one
and here it is here's the device profile
editor so we're a vendor say where they
were example CO and we're working on a
CD RW 9000 well if we've if we've
shipped that under any other vendor
names perhaps generic or perhaps we've
shipped it with no vendor name at all
then you can indicate that here you can
pretty much list any of the alternate
Thunder names that you may have
rebranded the dr.s now we've got the
basic feature support in general dis
recording will try to use MMC and auto
detect all of this stuff but
occasionally there's something that
drives does or doesn't do that you know
dis recording won't be able to
automatically sense so you leave
everything on auto auto sense in fact
for the CD RW 9000 we'll just say that
will leave everything autosense and
we'll run the tests and if it works then
great so the one thing that we do need
down here is if the device this
recording has a couple things you know
all sony drives have a couple
characteristics in common all pioneer
drives have a couple characteristics in
common we know a little bit about draws
from various vendors so if there's a
device that's from a particular vendor
you know it helps to know that so you
can put the actual vendor name in here
and that helps dis recording a little
bit for example if you've rear-ended the
drive you can tell us who it actually
comes from and then we'll make sure we
get the right stuff in there so various
thing is if you happen to know that you
know there's some drives that can't
handle particular cdb commands if that
happens then then you can go ahead and
exclude them and tell just recording
never send this command because the
drive might hang the bus or otherwise
ledge if we have you know different
options parameters that drives can't
have handle if their CD burns speeds
that can't handle or if you want to
enumerate just a good CD the good speeds
you can include them and so you'll
create the profile with this you can
actually create more than one so let's
go ahead and create an
one again this is example co cd-rw 5000
let's say the crw 5000 an older drive it
might report that it does session at
once but you know it's kind of broken
and this recording can't really talk to
it very well so we're going to disable
session at once and perhaps it doesn't
report DVD support correctly well we'll
disable all the DVD burning too and then
you can run your battery of tests
against this and again if it all works
and it passes and you can it'll create a
file a dr profile file which you can
save so that's our example to drive
support and we can install that it with
an installer or even have the user do it
themselves and then dis recording will
be able to burn to that tries again this
is a panther thing so new and cancer and
we're still kind of working on it so we
would really like feedback on how it all
works ok so we're we're running just a
little bit over so let's kick back to
the slides alright so if you're
interested in the device profile editor
come up to us after the session give us
your card will get you on a list and
we'll see that to you and it's ready for
actual testing and we'll get you on a
list for feedback so developer resources
we've got a lot of sample code in both
see and objective-c the sample code
covers audio and data burning erasing
we're going to try to get we've got some
new sample code and we're going to try
to get the demos that we just did up on
up a sample code and so there's the URL
to the sample code we stop we've also
got a public mailing list in which can
get on ask your questions it's good to
ask your questions in public because
someone else may have already had the
problem you're having or someone else
may encounter in the future and it's all
archived so people can search the
archives and get help that way so we've
got a documentation
disk recording services and it's a
belief it's also under cocoa where we're
kind of technology as both carbon and
cocoa so this path says that we're in
carbon but also on connect at apple com
we've got some new reference
documentation for Panther only and
that's under connect apple com because
it's under its cancer and it's under NDA
for now so I'm going to bring Patrick's
back up to do the wrap up to follow up
as a druid mentioning that we do want to
get all your feedback so the contact
information up above will be the best
way to do that and primarily go through
me and then I can disseminate it to the
appropriate engineers and keep
everything in order but this is
something we're really excited about
with panther and anyone that has to go
through the process of giving guys
certified will see all the benefits so
anyway so there's a few sessions that
you might be interested in as well audio
formats today at five Coco inner user
interface programming tomorrow quicktime
and intense cds which is thursday at ten
thirty and righted writing threaded
applications so if you want to stay on
the subject please attend those